machine-learning/machine-learning-notes.md, before:

# Machine Learning Notes

## Lecture 1: (1.1)


Machine learning
  ~ Teaching machine what comes naturally to humans/animals
  ~ Posteriori knowledge driven, learning from experiences


### Solve Real World Problems

1. Energy Production
2. Computer Vision and image processing
3. Computational Biology
    - DNA sequencing

#### Supervised Learning
    
    1. A model is trained to accept an input and and output

#### Unsupervised Learning 
    1.  Find intrinsic or hidden features of the data (i.e. inputs) that have no labelled output (or response)

# Matlab
![Arrays](arrays.png "Arrays")

### Matlab array indexing
- starts at 1 (not zero)
- matrix indexing is x(row,col)
    - so x(: , 3)
    - refers to all values in the third row of the matrix

### vectors indexing
- vectors only have 1 index
- because there 1D
- they're not a matrix, just an array

### Supervised learning techniques
1. Classification techniques
    - predict descrite responses
2. Regression techniques
    - predict continuous responses

# Types of classification
## Urinary classification
1. One class classifcation (OCC)
2. finds outliers
3. It's much more complex than other classification types
4. Real world examples:
    - Classification of network traffic in a secure software-defined network as normal
    - Monitoring the operational status of a neuclar power plant:  there are few examples of catastrofic issues in a power plant but many normal examples
    
## Binary classification
1. Or binomial classification
2. Classifies elements of a set into two groups
3. e.g. spam/not-spam

## Multiclass classification
1. Or multinomial classification
2. if the size of the class is 3 or more - multinomial/multiclass
3. Qualitative credit score assignment i.e. good credit, poor, excellent, exemplary

## Multilabel classification
1. similar to multiclass but have multiple labels involved
2. each training example has many lables
3. i.e. descriving an image: people, truck, vegetation and lion labels in a photo of a truck in a sahara lion tour
## Imbalanced classification
1. The number of observations in each class is unequally distributed
2. Generally can be modelled as binary classification tasks
- majority of data in training data set - belong to normal class
- minority of data in training set - abnormal class
3. Can be a slight to a severe inbalance
4. Used in fraud detection, outlier detection and medical diagnosis

# Classification Alogrithms
## Week 2 - Lecture 3

Many classification algorithms can be used to solve classification problems such as: 
 1. Urinary classification
 2. Binary classification 
 3. Multiclass classification
 4. Multilabel classification
 5. Imbalanced classification

# Common classification algorithms are: 
1. Logistic Regression
2. Support Vector Machine
3. Discriminant Analysis
4. Naieve Bayes
5. k nearest neighbor

### Logistic Regression
- is NOT regression
- It's a classification algorithm that shares a very similiar formula to linear regression
- **Works by** using a logistic function to model a binary dependant variable i.e. binary classification
    -   more advanced formulas for multiclass classification exist
- often the start of Binary Classification
    - data can be sepearated by a single linear boundary
### SVM (Support vector Machine)
- Classification alogrithm
- Carries out classification by finding a linear decison boundary (or hyperplane)
    - that seperates all instances of one class from another
- e.g. for a 10,000 D dataset, SVM puts all feature vectors on an imaginary 10,000 D (dimention) plot and draw an imaginary line seperating the two classes
- Optimum hyperplane for SVM classifcation model is when the data is linearly seperable 

### SVM (Support vector Machine)
- for non-linear seperable data, if the hyperplane cannot seperate data in a straight line, a hinge loss function is introduced to penalise data on the wrong side of the line
- SVM classifier works well for high-dimentionality, non- lineaarly seperable data.
- typically for binary classification
- also used for multiclass classification
    - technique callled error correcting output codes (ECOC)
    - ECOC allows multiclass classificaiton to be reframed as binary classificaion
    - One vs Rest: (OvR) splits multiclass into one binary problem per class
    - One vs One (OvO) splits multiclass into one binary problem per each pair of classes

#


## 2.7: Assignment 2 - Unary Classification and Imbalanced Classification

Unary or one class classification (OCC) is used in many business cases, such as in the medical field for disease detection [1], the finance industry for credit scoring [2] and in the prediction of machine faults [3].

Similarly, to OCC, Imbalanced classification has also been used in the financial sector with credit card fraud detection possible with this methodology [4]. It has also been applied to medical situations such as by using the random forest imbalanced classification technique to find features that define heroin users [5]. In fault detection of artificial intelligence (AI), a convolutional neural network (CNN) approach to imbalanced classification has been used to predict and reduce faults in AI [6]. 

Both techniques can be helpful in classifying similar problems, the user must determine the best method for the task. Unary classification focuses on finding and identifying outliers in a training data set [7]. The large difference remains that in OCC data samples are from a single class which is known as the target class, to classify the data [8]. Whereas in imbalanced classification, there is more than one class. Usually, one class of data fits the majority, whilst the other fits to a minority class [9]. 

Bibliography
[1] G. Cohen, M. Hilario, H. Sax, S. Hugonnet, C. Pellegrini, and A. Geissbuhler, “An application of one-class support vector machine to nosocomial infection detection,” Studies in Health Technology and Informatics, vol. 107, no. Pt 1, pp. 716–720, 2004, Accessed: May 20, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15360906/.

[2] K. Kennedy, B. M. Namee, and S. J. Delany, “Low-Default Portfolio/One-Class Classification: A Literature Review,” Reports, Jan. 2009, Accessed: May 20, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://arrow.tudublin.ie/scschcomrep/4/.

[3] H. J. Shin, D.-H. Eom, and S.-S. Kim, “One-class support vector machines—an application in machine fault detection and classification,” Computers & Industrial Engineering, vol. 48, no. 2, pp. 395–408, Mar. 2005, doi: 10.1016/j.cie.2005.01.009.
[4] H. Zhu, G. Liu, M. Zhou, Y. Xie, A. Abusorrah, and Q. Kang, “Optimizing Weighted Extreme Learning Machines for imbalanced classification and application to credit card fraud detection,” Neurocomputing, vol. 407, pp. 50–62, Sep. 2020, doi: 10.1016/j.neucom.2020.04.078.

[5] K. Kennedy, B. M. Namee, and S. J. Delany, “Low-Default Portfolio/One-Class Classification: A Literature Review,” Reports, Jan. 2009, Accessed: May 20, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://arrow.tudublin.ie/scschcomrep/4/.
[6] A. Duan, L. Guo, H. Gao, X. Wu, and X. Dong, “Deep Focus Parallel Convolutional Neural Network for Imbalanced Classification of Machinery Fault Diagnostics,” IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, vol. 69, no. 11, pp. 8680–8689, Nov. 2020, doi: 10.1109/TIM.2020.2998233.

[7] A. Garcia, Learning From Imbalanced Data Sets. Springer, 2018, p. 139.

[8] M. He, J. D. Weir, T. Wu, A. Silva, D.-Y. Zhao, and W. Qian, “K Nearest Gaussian-A model fusion based framework for imbalanced classification with noisy dataset,” Artificial Intelligence Research, vol. 4, no. 2, Aug. 2015, doi: 10.5430/air.v4n2p126.

[9] Q. Leng, H. Qi, J. Miao, W. Zhu, and G. Su, “One-Class Classification with Extreme Learning Machine,” Mathematical Problems in Engineering, vol. 2015, pp. 1–11, 2015, doi: 10.1155/2015/412957.

# Week 3 Classification

## Regression in ML
- In ML regression works by building a mathematical equation or relation that defines y (the target) as a funciton of x (the predictor)

### Linear regression
- attempts to model relationship between 2 variables by fitting a linear equation to the observed data.
 - one variable is the explatory variable.
 - the other is the dependant variable

Commit message:

linear and non-linear regression Lecture 1 week 3 Machine Learning course

machine-learning/machine-learning-notes.md, after:

# Machine Learning Notes

## Lecture 1: (1.1)


Machine learning
  ~ Teaching machine what comes naturally to humans/animals
  ~ Posteriori knowledge driven, learning from experiences


### Solve Real World Problems

1. Energy Production
2. Computer Vision and image processing
3. Computational Biology
    - DNA sequencing

#### Supervised Learning
    
    1. A model is trained to accept an input and and output

#### Unsupervised Learning 
    1.  Find intrinsic or hidden features of the data (i.e. inputs) that have no labelled output (or response)

# Matlab
![Arrays](arrays.png "Arrays")

### Matlab array indexing
- starts at 1 (not zero)
- matrix indexing is x(row,col)
    - so x(: , 3)
    - refers to all values in the third row of the matrix

### vectors indexing
- vectors only have 1 index
- because there 1D
- they're not a matrix, just an array

### Supervised learning techniques
1. Classification techniques
    - predict descrite responses
2. Regression techniques
    - predict continuous responses

# Types of classification
## Urinary classification
1. One class classifcation (OCC)
2. finds outliers
3. It's much more complex than other classification types
4. Real world examples:
    - Classification of network traffic in a secure software-defined network as normal
    - Monitoring the operational status of a neuclar power plant:  there are few examples of catastrofic issues in a power plant but many normal examples
    
## Binary classification
1. Or binomial classification
2. Classifies elements of a set into two groups
3. e.g. spam/not-spam

## Multiclass classification
1. Or multinomial classification
2. if the size of the class is 3 or more - multinomial/multiclass
3. Qualitative credit score assignment i.e. good credit, poor, excellent, exemplary

## Multilabel classification
1. similar to multiclass but have multiple labels involved
2. each training example has many lables
3. i.e. descriving an image: people, truck, vegetation and lion labels in a photo of a truck in a sahara lion tour
## Imbalanced classification
1. The number of observations in each class is unequally distributed
2. Generally can be modelled as binary classification tasks
- majority of data in training data set - belong to normal class
- minority of data in training set - abnormal class
3. Can be a slight to a severe inbalance
4. Used in fraud detection, outlier detection and medical diagnosis

# Classification Alogrithms
## Week 2 - Lecture 3

Many classification algorithms can be used to solve classification problems such as: 
 1. Urinary classification
 2. Binary classification 
 3. Multiclass classification
 4. Multilabel classification
 5. Imbalanced classification

# Common classification algorithms are: 
1. Logistic Regression
2. Support Vector Machine
3. Discriminant Analysis
4. Naieve Bayes
5. k nearest neighbor

### Logistic Regression
- is NOT regression
- It's a classification algorithm that shares a very similiar formula to linear regression
- **Works by** using a logistic function to model a binary dependant variable i.e. binary classification
    -   more advanced formulas for multiclass classification exist
- often the start of Binary Classification
    - data can be sepearated by a single linear boundary
### SVM (Support vector Machine)
- Classification alogrithm
- Carries out classification by finding a linear decison boundary (or hyperplane)
    - that seperates all instances of one class from another
- e.g. for a 10,000 D dataset, SVM puts all feature vectors on an imaginary 10,000 D (dimention) plot and draw an imaginary line seperating the two classes
- Optimum hyperplane for SVM classifcation model is when the data is linearly seperable 

### SVM (Support vector Machine)
- for non-linear seperable data, if the hyperplane cannot seperate data in a straight line, a hinge loss function is introduced to penalise data on the wrong side of the line
- SVM classifier works well for high-dimentionality, non- lineaarly seperable data.
- typically for binary classification
- also used for multiclass classification
    - technique callled error correcting output codes (ECOC)
    - ECOC allows multiclass classificaiton to be reframed as binary classificaion
    - One vs Rest: (OvR) splits multiclass into one binary problem per class
    - One vs One (OvO) splits multiclass into one binary problem per each pair of classes

#


## 2.7: Assignment 2 - Unary Classification and Imbalanced Classification

Unary or one class classification (OCC) is used in many business cases, such as in the medical field for disease detection [1], the finance industry for credit scoring [2] and in the prediction of machine faults [3].

Similarly, to OCC, Imbalanced classification has also been used in the financial sector with credit card fraud detection possible with this methodology [4]. It has also been applied to medical situations such as by using the random forest imbalanced classification technique to find features that define heroin users [5]. In fault detection of artificial intelligence (AI), a convolutional neural network (CNN) approach to imbalanced classification has been used to predict and reduce faults in AI [6]. 

Both techniques can be helpful in classifying similar problems, the user must determine the best method for the task. Unary classification focuses on finding and identifying outliers in a training data set [7]. The large difference remains that in OCC data samples are from a single class which is known as the target class, to classify the data [8]. Whereas in imbalanced classification, there is more than one class. Usually, one class of data fits the majority, whilst the other fits to a minority class [9]. 

Bibliography
[1] G. Cohen, M. Hilario, H. Sax, S. Hugonnet, C. Pellegrini, and A. Geissbuhler, “An application of one-class support vector machine to nosocomial infection detection,” Studies in Health Technology and Informatics, vol. 107, no. Pt 1, pp. 716–720, 2004, Accessed: May 20, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/15360906/.

[2] K. Kennedy, B. M. Namee, and S. J. Delany, “Low-Default Portfolio/One-Class Classification: A Literature Review,” Reports, Jan. 2009, Accessed: May 20, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://arrow.tudublin.ie/scschcomrep/4/.

[3] H. J. Shin, D.-H. Eom, and S.-S. Kim, “One-class support vector machines—an application in machine fault detection and classification,” Computers & Industrial Engineering, vol. 48, no. 2, pp. 395–408, Mar. 2005, doi: 10.1016/j.cie.2005.01.009.
[4] H. Zhu, G. Liu, M. Zhou, Y. Xie, A. Abusorrah, and Q. Kang, “Optimizing Weighted Extreme Learning Machines for imbalanced classification and application to credit card fraud detection,” Neurocomputing, vol. 407, pp. 50–62, Sep. 2020, doi: 10.1016/j.neucom.2020.04.078.

[5] K. Kennedy, B. M. Namee, and S. J. Delany, “Low-Default Portfolio/One-Class Classification: A Literature Review,” Reports, Jan. 2009, Accessed: May 20, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://arrow.tudublin.ie/scschcomrep/4/.
[6] A. Duan, L. Guo, H. Gao, X. Wu, and X. Dong, “Deep Focus Parallel Convolutional Neural Network for Imbalanced Classification of Machinery Fault Diagnostics,” IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, vol. 69, no. 11, pp. 8680–8689, Nov. 2020, doi: 10.1109/TIM.2020.2998233.

[7] A. Garcia, Learning From Imbalanced Data Sets. Springer, 2018, p. 139.

[8] M. He, J. D. Weir, T. Wu, A. Silva, D.-Y. Zhao, and W. Qian, “K Nearest Gaussian-A model fusion based framework for imbalanced classification with noisy dataset,” Artificial Intelligence Research, vol. 4, no. 2, Aug. 2015, doi: 10.5430/air.v4n2p126.

[9] Q. Leng, H. Qi, J. Miao, W. Zhu, and G. Su, “One-Class Classification with Extreme Learning Machine,” Mathematical Problems in Engineering, vol. 2015, pp. 1–11, 2015, doi: 10.1155/2015/412957.

# Week 3 Classification

## Regression in ML
- In ML regression works by building a mathematical equation or relation that defines y (the target) as a funciton of x (the predictor)

### Linear regression
- attempts to model relationship between 2 variables by fitting a linear equation to the observed data.
    - one variable is the explatory variable.
    - the other is the dependant variable
    - e.g. predicting sales data from previous months sales data to predict future months sales data.
- If the predictor variables are > 1, then it's multiple linear regression / multiple regression
    - 2 or more explanatory variables
    - financial inferance applications and econometrics

![LinearRegression](linearRegression.png "Linear regression")


### Non Linear Regression
- 2 variables
    - explanitory variable 
- describes the non-linear relationship of data
- models are generally assumed to be parametric (if the model is described as a nonlinear function)
- when data or observation has strong non-linear trend with no ease of transformation into a linear space, non-linear regression models can then be used.
    i.e. popuplation growth over time

![nonlinearRegression](nonlinearRegression.png "Linear regression")
