2 Venn diagram. Here you are going to discuss these two views, their differences and why these differences exist.   

 

Task
Step 1
- two different Venn diagrams were presented
- the 3 main components in each Venn diagram are referring to the same interdisciplinary areas.  
- intersection between every two intersecting components (i.e. Analytic vs Danger Zone, Model vs Traditional Research, and finally, Algorithms vs Machine Learning
- in each view against each other by answering the following questions:
### Question:  
What do these intersecting areas (i.e., Analytic, Danger Zone, Model, Traditional Research, Algorithms and Machine Learning) represent? Can you identify any similarities and differences between corresponding intersections (i.e. Analytic vs Danger Zone, Model vs Traditional Research, and finally, Algorithms vs Machine Learning)? Why do they look very different?

    Analytic and Danger Zone refer to the two interpretations of Data Science skills by Hwang & Chen (2017) and Drew Conway (2014) respectively.

    What they're refering to is the requirement for data scientists to posess Programming skills and have expertise in the field & with the tools.  

    The Model (Domain expertise and maths) & Traditional research (Substansive Expertise Maths & statistics) area describe the need for a data scientist to use and leverage statistical and math implementations where necesary to get meaning from their data, and know how to interpret this data with their expertise in the field.

    The  Algorithms vs Machine Learning refers to programming and statistics skills and hacking and mathmatical skills. This eludes to the requirement for a Data Scientist to understand programming & to be able to leverage it to prepare and quantify their collected structured and unstructured data. Then using mathematical and statistical skills, they must be able to use and inspect the data.

    The Hwang & Chen diagram hilights technologies used in each of the areas and the Conway diagram points out the Danger Zone, wherby Data Scientists, if they do not know how to properly analise the data or understand the statistics behind the modelling,they can run into issues. Hence why expertise is a nessesary component of Data Science.

 

### Step 2

You should then take the time to read the responses of your classmates.  Select two classmates, reply to their posts and for each one do the following
- Compare your answer with them and highlight the differences.
- Highlight what did they consider that you didn’t.
- Agreeing or challenging their points and justify your comments.